# Billie-Eilish-Streams-Vs.-Topics
To analyze how Billie utilizes her large platform when singing about controversial topics to influence today’s youth, I utilized four variables to operationalize different aspects of Billie’s music. Looking at all her songs to date, as my unit of analysis, I used each song’s name as a unique identifier for every observation. Convenience sampling, a nonrandom method of choosing a sample that often produces biased data, was utilized in my project when collecting data for my observations. Most of my data was collected simply from Spotify and by playing and listening to each song. Two quantitative variables, “seconds_of_lyrics” and “number_of_streams” and two quantitative variables, “controversial_topics” and “personal_rating,” were analyzed using a series of tests, including the chi squared test, ANOVA, correlation, and linear regression. 
My first quantitative variable is “seconds_of_lyrics,” which represents the proportion of time in a song that the artist is singing. Since I wanted to be able to observe if there was any relationship between how much time in a song Billie is using her platform to speak about topics of her choosing and how well the song did, it was best to look at only the amounts that Billie is singing for to see with more certainty if the more or less she sings the better a song is received by the audience. “Seconds_of_lyrics” is measured in seconds; each song was played and the total seconds the artist sang for was recorded. Any instrumental or non lyrical parts of the song was subtracted from the total length of the song. The data was provided provided in a ratio of: seconds of lyricstotal # of seconds in song and then simplified.My second quantitative variable is “number_of streams.” This variable quantifies how well a song did in terms of how much the audience/fans liked/soaked in the song and played it that collective number of times. This can also show how well a song did and was repeatedly played because of it. As a result, the number of streams each song received, in whole numbers, as provided by Spotify, was obtained as data for this variable. This variable’s unique identifier was “number_of_streams.” Of the two qualitative variables, the first was called “controversial_topics.” This variable represents if the song discusses a controversial topic or not, and if so, of what kind. Each song is assigned a number that indicates the topic of the song. The numbers correlate to “controversial” topics. We can then compare how well a song did via streams, to how often those songs mentioned or were about controversial topics. A song’s topic was mostly determined by a google search and common consensus of several articles. Likewise, based on the message the lyrics are trying to convey and Genius Verified episodes, I will conclude what the objective of the song is. Genius lyric videos feature the artist who sings the song and has them explain their work and what their intended message was. Additionally, some of the categories may not be mutually exclusive. The coding scheme for this variable is as follows: 1- did not mention controversial topic, 2- song was about love/sex/heartbreak/relationship,  3- song was about drugs, 4- song was about money, 5- song was about politics, 6- song was about religion, 7- song was about mental health, 8- song was about death/mourning, 9- song was about another unmentioned topic. The second qualitative variable will score on an ordinal scale of 1-5, how much I currently like each of Billie’s songs being observed. As a person within Billie’s target audience, I am part of the population that most indulges in and relates to her music. Therefore, I am exposed to the messages Billie portrays with her music and am affected by the way she utilizes her platform. My testimony as just one fan can serve as a minimal basis of how well people might relate to certain songs. The coding scheme for “personal_rating” lists: 1- immediate skip, 2- occasionally skip, listen to because it is a billie song, 3- listen to song because it was popular 4- song is catchy and will listen to it 9/10 times that it comes on, 5- LOVE the song. After opening the script labeled “STA215-ESQUIVEL.r”, the same script that was utilized to run my tests, it is essential to run the library. After running the library, you must upload your data and change the name of the file to match what your data is called in the script. Afterwards, run each corresponding line of script for each relationship you are looking to test/assess. 





